[ Background noise ]
We're literally contaminating our baby.
We're air, about 20% oxygen.
This is without. Last time we did it after we mixed.
Alright, so this is highly unorthodox.
Do as I say, not as I do.
We're learning.
So I want everybody who wants to,
I want you to feel how cool it is up here.
So everyone can bring your hands,
and then you can stick your hand far down into the middle
so you can see the temperature difference.
Oh, it's really warm down there.
It's crazy, right?
- Yeah, like way down there.
- It looks like really warm.
- You've got the longest arm in the world.
(laughing)
- Do that again.
- That is so, so weird.
- It's already--
- Check, can you see the bubbles?
- Yeah.
- It's already really gritty.
- Oh, it's warm.
Are we concerned about all these flamers that are on the ship?
Yeah, so this would be a good time to bring the colander behind Joey and a bucket.
A bigger colander?
No, no, sorry.
A strainer?
Sorry, a strainer.
And we can definitely dry.
We do have a cap now, so before, so what's happened is, also if you felt it, it's much easier to move.
It's much more liquidy.
There's this much liquid on top.
Yes, we have like a cap now.
So before the volume has gone down, right? So before everything had this like
cushion of mucilage around it. When the mucilage breaks down, the coffee sinks.
So we have this gap. The seeds got smaller. So we can, and so all of this
stuff that's floating, you can tell it's coffee that's very either empty,
like these shells that are empty, or insect damage, or grass cutter. So it's a good time to take that off.
[inaudible]
There are two cylinders.
Do you want another bucket?
[inaudible]
I have this.
Do you want to stay on the pump?
[inaudible]
(speaking Spanish)
Sometimes it's black beads.
[Spanish]
If you don't take those out,
you get the black beads,
those little shriveled black defects.
(inaudible)
We usually do this every time we mix.
As soon as we're ready, we just give off the top.
Let's get the sandwich tin.
Let's see what that means.
There's your black bean.
Oh, oh.
So, so these will float in the parchment.
So why all the effort previously?
Why not just get them on the floor and grab them?
Um, well there's other things that...
So let's say those floaters we took out the first day, right?
[ Inaudible ]
yeah okay so how do we decide so the cherries that we took out right not not all of those
so there would be a lot of those
and then it'd be like either low quality
so taking it out as a cherry you get you get a lot of things you don't want here but then
there's also some of these that the cherry would sink but then once you get it free it from the
uh
[inaudible]
(chattering)
[Indistinct chatter]
[Indistinct]
Some of these are just from the floaters.
You notice we didn't get every single floater out.
If you have stirring up the dairy, there would still be more of that.
They just gave it one or two stirs.
There's probably quite a few more that we didn't get.
[ Inaudible ]
So right now we're at 3.1.
Let's see what it is.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[INAUDIBLE]
[ Inaudible ]
(speaking in foreign language)
I'm sorry. I'll wait until you get more luck.
Thank you.
You're going to miss a little bit.
I think he's going to miss a little bit.
(laughter)
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
So we're at 2.5.
So the mixing didn't introduce that much more oxygen.
I think we get a little bit more on the surface.
But it's not as disruptive.
[ Inaudible ]
>> 24.4 in the middle.
And 24.3 on the sides, so we did a good mixing job.
Our sides and our middle are not that different.
That's a good way to check if you've mixed enough, if you felt the temperature difference,
and making sure that you can...
[BLANK_AUDIO]
>> What was the breaks last time?
Last night?
>> Five. >> Five?
>> Five.
>> And the [INAUDIBLE]
[inaudible]
I say four. Anyone else want to see it?
Yeah.
Take a look.
[inaudible]
[ Background noise ]
>> What was our pH last night?
[chatter]
(chattering)
[ Inaudible ]
0.0
Does it mean anything?
It's just a very small difference from tomorrow.
So it's a small difference but
But you can test it.
Well no, it's mostly
It was very cool last night so
If I just had a 0.1 difference from like
morning to lunch
maybe I would be concerned but because it was overnight
when it was cool
less activity, I'm not
it doesn't, that makes sense to me. It makes sense to me that
overnight it was a little bit slower
Maybe we'll see now at lunch if it drops anymore.
As it warms up and gets more active.
So yeah, this four bricks has not...
So even though it has been opened, even though we've been mixing it, it is still an anaerobic environment.
As well as an anaerobic fermentation.
So sealing off your tank is not the only way to get anaerobic.
Someone on Instagram literally was like, "So is that wash or anaerobic?"
I was like, "Do you want the short answer or do you want to wait until I can type out a long answer?"
Is it a giraffe or a train? I don't know what you're talking about.
Your question is incorrect.
That's a better question.
Yeah.
Okay, now we're going to cover.
We're going to cover.
[inaudible]
Hmm?
What was yesterday?
I think she wants to
[inaudible]
(speaking in foreign language)
How long has the tank been open? Showing... 8.7 minutes.
[inaudible]
This is just a cover for the...
Do you mind me putting that over there?
So she can use it on her.
That's the gun.
You don't have to lock it or anything.
Just close it.
It won't move.
And...
If it's plastic, you don't have to touch it.
It will come out by itself.
It's much easier.
Yeah.
This is the black one.
Yes.
So the black one drops to 4.3.
You want to taste it?
It's too salty.
It's down quite a bit.
But it's still slower.
It's behind this one.
Oh, it's so small.
(speaking in foreign language)
So it's not the curve, it's the final destination.
It's going slower to the final destination
even though it dropped four points.
- What would be the final destination of the VH?
- I like to stay above the green.
- Same.
- But you prefer below four?
- Below four.
- Can I ask a question?
We are referring like a tank and we actually guess
like the actual lower the--
- No, same.
- So the VH would be kind of a slower and then--
- Like how low?
4.9 and it gets 5.1.
It goes up?
Yes.
And then after another two hours, it goes down again.
So we were wondering why is it.
And we thought it's because of the liquid or fluid.
It could be that it's--
this is a mixed solid for me.
It's really difficult to measure one unit
and you have a lot of liquid in the beginning,
you still have all of the mucilage all around.
So you're gonna have a lot of variation.
Like this one is still very sticky.
It still has like a, all this like ooey.
So as it's dissolving, it's changing the liquid.
So it could be that in the beginning you're measuring,
depending on where your probe hits,
maybe your probe is just hitting a coffee bean,
and then you're just getting that part.
And then as time goes on,
you get more of the liquid more mixing.
So then it goes down.
But that's very strange.
That's very strange.
- It's like submerged.
(people chattering)
- I've never seen that.
If you send me pictures of it, next time it happens.
- And my other question is that in this tank,
When we were cleaning up, we wanted the water to be a little higher over the top of the coffee.
And then at the beginning, now when we open it, you take out the filters and all the ingredients you want in.
And so the beans sit on them.
Yeah.
And now they are back at the same height.
Once you mix it up, they are all set.
Salt and vinegar came back up.
The question is why?
If you think of it in terms of salt and vinegar chips, yeah, it's not bad.
Just to cover the top, I just want it to be right on top and then we use the plastic to keep it down.
Just for concentration.
If you want to put a little bit more because it's easier to skim off the top, that's okay too.
It's not bad.
And if you would add more water, it would be great.
Just a dilution, which could be fine, but I try to have it as concentrated as possible.
And another question, sorry.
The sima yeast, how do you separate it in this, like the concentration?
By the dosage. We know that when we're adding it in that amount, that's why we don't underdose, to be stretching it.
And the temperature as well?
The temperature is less important because this yeast is very robust.
This yeast can do much lower temperatures, warmer, it's a very strong range.
So it has less to do with temperature and more to do with just the dosage that we add in the beginning.
Okay.
Thank you.
Did we get the brief here?
I forgot my question.
You were talking about the muesli.
Oh yeah.
I mean, the muesli is gone but we're still going to keep fermenting it because
Because what's the point of fermentation? If your point is that muesli is gone, yes you're done.
But we're going to keep going because we want to develop more flavor.
Yeah.
What kind of flavor do you want?
I think maybe a place for contact time. Maybe the flavor can come into the seed a little bit more.
More contact time.
Yeah.
And what about measuring? How would you optimize your process to measure the flavor?
I just do it with food.
So we have breakfast, we check the coffee before lunch and dinner.
So you can just do the three times.
And then you can just do the three times.
after four hours and it's full.
But is there any such a strict rule?
I just do it with food.
So we have breakfast, we check the coffee
before lunch and dinner.
I just do the three times that I remember.
It's part of the day.
Yeah, okay.
Thank you.
Alright, Sebas, we're putting the number.
How many for the work?
1.3
1.3, okay.
Wow, so it's more than our big guess.
Yeah, it is.
Yeah, so because we want the contact. It's like marinating. We want our meat to marinate in the stew of flavors.
Okay now...
But Spanish group and grupo español de Piosco, English group has like another hour to hang out before we switch.
And then we're going to cut the coffees.
Okay.
Alright?
¿Qué hora y hora?
¿Huh?
Uh-huh.